ID_glob	ID_case	Case	Name	Year	Entity	Type of document	To implement at level	Area of interest	UGBI Directly or indirectly mentioned	mentioned_num	UGBI central to approach	UGBI_lev_centr	Concept defined	Definition(s)
1	1	"Coimbra, PT"	Law Decree 166/2008 REN (National Ecological Reserve)	2008	MAOTDR	Law / Decree	Municipal / Local	Nature protection	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	Yes	"REN - a biophysical structure that integrates all the areas that, due to their ecological value and sensitivity or exposure and susceptibility to natural hazards, are subject to special protection.  
Environmental Services and Goods which are indispensable for the development of human activities. "
2	2	"Coimbra, PT"	"Norm 216-B/2008 Dimensioning of areas set aside for Green Spaces, Urban equipment and infrastructures "	2008	MAOTDR	Norms	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	"Green and Collective Spaces - Free spaces, understood as outdoor spaces, fitting within the urban green structure, lending themselves to less conditioned use, spontaneous behavior and a relaxed stay by the users. It includes gardens, open-air sports facilities and squares, excluding private public places in single or double family houses."
3	3	"Coimbra, PT"	Law 60/2007 REGEU (Legal Regime for Urbanization and Building)	2007	MEPAT	Law / Decree	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	-
4	4	"Coimbra, PT"	Law 48 /98 Spatial Planning and Urbanism Policy	1998	AR	Law / Decree	Multi-level	Land use planning	n.a.	0	n.a.	0	n.a.	-
5	5	"Coimbra, PT"	Decree 324/XIII (based on the Law Proposal nß 148/XIII) National Programme on Spatial Planning Policy (1st revision of the Law 58/2007) (PNPOT)	2019	AR	Strategic document	Multi-level	Land use planning	Directly	2	Strongly relevant	3	No	-
6	6	"Coimbra, PT"	Resolution of the Council of Ministers 61/2015 Sustainable Cities 2020	2015	PCM	Strategic document	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Directly	2	Partially relevant	2	No	-
7	7	"Coimbra, PT"	Resolution of the Council of Ministers 55/2018 National Strategy for Nature Conservation and Biodiversity for 2030	2018	PCM	Strategic document	Multi-level	Nature protection	Directly	2	Partially relevant	2	No	"on Ecosystem Services: Ecosystems provide a wide range of direct and indirect benefits. Forests, agricultural and agroforestry spaces, wetlands, rivers, lakes and oceans provide a wide variety of products (food, water, raw materials) that underlie the development of human societies. Beyond this provisioning function, ecosystems play a unique role in regulating the different natural cycles (water, air and other natural and genetic resources essential to life) and have an increasingly appreciated and mobilizing cultural value."
8	8	"Coimbra, PT"	Law Decree 80/2015 Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments	2015	MAOTE	Law / Decree	Multi-level	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	-
9	9	"Coimbra, PT"	"Law 31/2014 General Law of Public Soil Policy, Land Use Planning and Urbanism"	2014	AR	Law / Decree	Multi-level	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	-
10	10	"Coimbra, PT"	Law Decree 307/2009 Urban Rehabilitation Legal Regime	2009	MAOTDR	Law / Decree	Intermunicipal	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	-
11	11	"Coimbra, PT"	Regulatory Decree 9/2009 Technical Concepts in the Areas of Spatial Planning and Urbanism	2009	MAOTDR	Norms	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	"Green spaces for collective use are areas of land within the municipal or urban ecological structure that, in addition to the functions of protection and environmental and landscape enhancement, are intended for use by citizens in activities of stay, recreation and outdoor leisure.
The municipal ecological structure is the set of soil areas which, by virtue of their biophysical or cultural characteristics, their ecological continuity and their order, have as their main function to contribute to the ecological balance and to the protection, conservation and  the enhancement of the environmental, landscape and natural heritage of rural and urban areas."
12	12	"Coimbra, PT"	Law Decree 334/95 Legal Regime of Urban Allotments	1995	MPAT	Law / Decree	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	-
13	13	"Coimbra, PT"	PROT-Centro - Regional Plan for Land Use Management of the Centre Region	2011	CCDR	"Plan (Land use, protected area,...)"	Multi-level	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	Yes	"ERPVA - It integrates areas with natural values and fundamental systems for environmental protection and enhancement, both from the standpoint of support for natural life and human activities."
14	14	"Coimbra, PT"	Regulation 381/2017 Municipal Regulation of Urbanization and Building (City Taxes and Compensations)	2017	CMC	Norms	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	
15	15	"Coimbra, PT"	Strategic Plan for the City of Coimbra	2010	CMC	Strategic document	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Strongly relevant	3	No	
16	16	"Coimbra, PT"	Coimbra Municipal Master Plan (PDM) (1st revision)	2014	CMC	"Plan (Land use, protected area,...)"	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	Yes	"Recreational and leisure green areas correspond to larger (existing or future) gardens and urban parks.
Green areas of protection and framing aim at safeguarding natural values, namely the conservation of ecosystems, habitats, forest stands or plant formations of ecological and / or didactic value, as well as green structures protecting soil from erosion in steep and erodible areas, and green areas framing road infrastructures. "
17	17	"Coimbra, PT"	Strategic Environmental Assessment for the PDM	2014	CMC	Other legal document	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	
18	18	"Coimbra, PT"	Notice 8289/2017 1st modification to the PDM	2017	CMC	Law / Decree	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	
19	19	"Coimbra, PT"	Plan for Forest Management and Public Use Guidance (PGFOUP) for the Choupal National Forest (MNC)	2009	ICNB	"Plan (Land use, protected area,...)"	Municipal / Local	Forest	Indirectly	1	Strongly relevant	3	No	
20	20	"Coimbra, PT"	Intermunicipal Climate Change Adaptation Plan for the CIM-Coimbra Region	2017	CIM-RC	"Plan (Land use, protected area,...)"	Intermunicipal		Directly	1	Partially relevant	3	No	"Ecosystem services are the conditions and processes through which natural ecosystems and their constituent species support the well-being, health, and livelihoods of human beings.
Gray infrastructures - physical or engineering interventions to make buildings and other infrastructures better prepared to handle extreme events."
21	1	"Vilnius, LT"	Law on environmental protection	2018	MoE	Law / Decree	National	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Not relevant	3	No	
22	2	"Vilnius, LT"	Law on territorial planning	2018	MoE	Law / Decree	National	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	Public space - elements of the spatial structure in an urbanized residential area intended to serve for the public interest.
23	3	"Vilnius, LT"	Law on greenery	2019	MoE	Law / Decree	National	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Strongly relevant	3	No	"A green connection is a separate greenery, not less than 20 meters wide, that connects urban and / or urban greenery and forests within and outside the city to a greenery system for recreation, affecting air mass movements and serving as a migration corridor.
The square is at least 0.05 hectares size greenery for short recreation visits with predominant open spaces, improving the aesthetic and ecological condition of the city, town or village.
Park - at least 1 hectare of man-made or redesigned greenery containing artistically composed greenery, small landscape architecture and / or engineering structures for recreational, scientific, cultural or recreational use and environmental quality improvement.
A city or town garden - a separate green area of at least 0.5 hectares for quiet recreation and events with a canopy density of at least 70 percent."
24	4	"Vilnius, LT"	The Law of the Republic of Lithuania on the Protected Areas	2017	MoE	Law / Decree	National	Nature protection	Indirectly	1	Strongly relevant	3	No	"A nature frames is a coherent network of areas of natural ecological compensation that ensures the ecological balance of the landscape, natural links between protected areas, other areas or habitats of environmental importance, and the migration of plants and animals between them.
The ecological network is the part of the natural framework that connects the habitats of highest bioecological importance, their environment and animal and plant migration corridors."
25	5	"Vilnius, LT"	Nature frames regulations	2017	MoE	Norms	National	Nature protection	Indirectly	1	Strongly relevant	3	No	
26	6	"Vilnius, LT"	Territorial planning norms	2016	MoE	Norms	Multi-level	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	"Common areas, isolated green areas. No built-in functional area in which distinguishes between public spaces in urbanized areas and those in common use green areas, as well as cemetery areas. This functional area is under the use of greenery intensity for recreation can be divided into:
- intensive green areas;
- the area of extensively used green areas."
27	7	"Vilnius, LT"	Norms for the territory of separate recreational greeneries		MoE	Norms		Land use planning	Directly	2	Strongly relevant	3	No	-
28	8	"Vilnius, LT"	Rules for the preparation of complex territorial planning documents	2019	MoE	Norms	Multi-level	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	
29	9	"Vilnius, LT"	Lithuanian national general plan	2002	MoE	"Plan (Land use, protected area,...)"	National	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	
30	10	"Vilnius, LT"	National strategy for environmental protection 2016 	2016	MoE	Strategic document	National	Nature protection	Indirectly	1	Not relevant	3	No	
31	11	"Vilnius, LT"	Program of the 17th Government of the Republic of Lithuania 	2016	Parliament	Strategic document	National	???	Directly	2	Not relevant	3	No	
32	12	"Vilnius, LT"	Landscape and biological diversity protection plan for 2015-2020 	2019	MoE	Strategic document	National	Nature protection	Directly	2	Partially relevant	2	Yes	"Green infrastructure ? a combination of spatial and qualitative measures together with technical solutions, created to improve the current state of local ecological status."
33	13	"Vilnius, LT"	"Vilnius city master plan 2015 (termless validity according to the city council decision No. 1-2317, 1 April 2015)"	2016	Municipality of Vilnius	"Plan (Land use, protected area,...)"	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Directly	2	Partially relevant	2	Yes	Green Infrastructure ? hierarchical system of green areas.
34	14	"Vilnius, LT"	Rules for greenery and the protection of the greeneries	2016	Municipality of Vilnius	Norms	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Directly	2	Strongly relevant	3	No	
35	1	"Leipzig, DE"	"INSEK 2030 (draft) - Proposed integrated urban development concept ""Leipzig 2030"""	2018	City of Leipzig	Strategic document	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Directly	2	Partially relevant	2	Yes	"Green and blue infrastructure: inlcudes all kinds of green and open spaces as well as water bodies: public parks, allotment gardens, urban gardens, cemetaries, agricultural spaces, forests, urban waters as well as brownfields and private green spaces. The citywide structure and network of these areas are based on a ring-radial-system. The urban green-blue infrastructure provides multiple functions and contribute to quality of life and the attractiveness of the city and is thus an important location factor."
36	2	"Leipzig, DE"	Freiraumstrategie der Stadt Leipzig ? Strategy for open spaces for the city of Leipzig 2017	2017	City of Leipzig: city's office for green space and waters	Strategic document	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Directly	2	Strongly relevant	3	Yes	"UGBI: The manifold network of open spaces of different categories: blue infrastructure including riparian structures at streaming waters, rivers, lakes & canals and green infrastructure including extensive forest and recreation areas, agricultural space, intensively designes and used parks, cemetaries, small green open spaces, allotment garden, temporary used brownfields, brownfields with different succession states of vegetation.
Ecosystem services: Maintencance of biodiversity in public green and waters to provide nature experiences for people in the city, airfiltering, climate regulation and water retention to improve quality of life, well-being and health"
37	3	"Leipzig, DE"	"GrÅner Ring Leipzig, Regionales Handlungskonzept 2014 - Green Ring - Regional Action Plan 2014"	2014	"Green Ring Leipzig, represented by the city of Leipzig: city's office for green space and waters"	Strategic document	Regional / Province	Land use planning	n.a.	0	n.a.	0	n.a.	Resilience: Adaption of the region to climate change
38	4	"Leipzig, DE"	State Development Plan Saxony 2013	2013	Federal state government	"Plan (Land use, protected area,...)"	Regional / Province	Land use planning	n.a.	0	n.a.	0	n.a.	"Ecosystem services: water retention, filtering-, buffering functions of vegetation & soil, air filtration, climate regulation, carbon sequestration"
39	5	"Leipzig, DE"	"Wei·buch StadtgrÅn, GrÅn in der Stadt fÅr eine lebenswerte Zukunft - ?White Book? Urban Green ? Green in the city for a future worth living"	2017	"Federal ministry for the environment, nature conservation and nuclear safety"	Strategic document	Regional / Province	Land use planning	Directly	2	Strongly relevant	3	No	
40	6	"Leipzig, DE"	Nachhaltigkeitsstrategie der Bundesrepublik Deutschland -  Sustainability strategy for the Federal Republic of Germany	2016	Federal government	Strategic document	National		n.a.	0	n.a.	0	n.a.	
41	7	"Leipzig, DE"	"Urbane GrÅne Infrastruktur - Grundlage fÅr attraktive und zukunftsfÑhige StÑdte, Hinweise fÅr die kommunale Praxis - urban green infrastructure - basis for attractive and sustainable cities, information for municipal practise"	2017	"Federal ministry for the environment, nature conservation and nuclear safety - Federal Agency for Nature conservation"	Good Practice Guide	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Directly	2	Strongly relevant	3	Yes	"UGI: is the network of near natural and man-made spaces and elements in cities, that are planned and maintained to provide high quality usuability, biological diversity and aesthetical values and a wide spectrum of ecosytsem services. All kinds of vegetation- and water systems can be part of the green infrastructure, regardless of their ownership and development. Also sealed areas and grey infrastructure can be qualified as green infrastructure through unsealing, greening or plantations with trees. UGI can enable and support diverse social aims, e.g. health and well-being, adpation to climate change and biological diversity."
42	8	"Leipzig, DE"	Bundeskonzept GrÅne Infrastruktur - Federal concept green infrastructure	2017	Federal Agency for Nature conservation	Other legal document	National	Nature protection	Directly	2	Strongly relevant	3	Yes	"UGI: promotion of urban and urban-typical biological diversity, climate change adaption and resilience, human health and well-being, social cohesion and participation, nature experiences, sustainable economical development and sutainable use of ressources. UGI provides the chance to define urban development, nature protection and green space planning as an holistic approach and to connect stakeholder from different disciplines."
43	1	"Genk, BE"	Spatial structure plan Flanders	2010	Flemish Government ? Department of Environment	Strategic document	State / Autonomous Communities	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	" ?nature connecting areas?: a nature connection between large units of nature (the IVON between the VEN, see Nature Decree)
?ecological infrastructure?: are the nature and forest areas that do not belong to large units of nature and nature connecting areas (see nature decree), but are the small landscape elements (trees, hedges, ...) and nature in built environments, especially nature, forests, parks, stream/river-valleys, and other nature elements in (peri-) urban areas. 
""urban natural elements"": are on one hand the areas of the natural structure that reach into urban areas (nature areas, forests and parks) and on the other hand parts of the ecological infrastructure in urban areas like gardens, verges, banks and planted flora."
44	2	"Genk, BE"	Spatial Policy Plan Flanders	2020	Flemish Government ? Department of Environment	Strategic document	State / Autonomous Communities	Land use planning	Directly	2	Strongly relevant	3	Yes	"""interlacing network of green and blue"": an interlacing network of green mass and water through open and built space. It consists of, among other, river/stream- valleys, green masses like parks and (play)forests, rows of trees, hedges or verges, water structures like ponds and basins, and green linked to buildings such as gardens, green roofs, or green walls. The interlacing network of green and blue enhances the ecological coherency of larger nature areas with smaller fragments within or close to the city, makes spaces climate resilient, and contributes to the quality of life and wellbeing of urban inhabitants by connecting them and making them accessible. "
45	3	"Genk, BE"	The Nature Decree	1997	Flemish Government ? Agency of Nature and Forest	Law / Decree	State / Autonomous Communities	Nature protection	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	The Nature Decree introduced the concepts and implementation of the Flemish Ecological Network (VEN) and the Integrated Interrelation and Support Network (IVON). The VEN are the large continuous nature areas and is the backbone of the natural structure of Flanders. The IVON consists of nature acquisition areas and natural corridors to connect the large areas of nature. 
46	4	"Genk, BE"	Spatial Structure Plan Limburg	2012	Province of Limburg	Strategic document	Regional / Province	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	Same defintions as the Spatial Structure Plan Flanders
47	6	"Genk, BE"	Spatial Structure Plan Genk	2006	City of Genk	Strategic document	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Partially relevant	2	No	Same defintions as the Spatial Structure Plan Flanders
48	7	"Genk, BE"	Masterplan Stiemerbeekvallei	2018	City of Genk	Strategic document	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Strongly relevant	3	No	
49	8	"Genk, BE"	Stiemerprogramma	2019	City of Genk	Strategic document	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Indirectly	1	Strongly relevant	3	No	
50	9	"Genk, BE"	Strategic plan 2020-2025 Connecting Genk Together	2019	City of Genk	Strategic document	Municipal / Local	Land use planning	Directly	2	Partially relevant	2	No	
